## What is OAuth
- allows websites and services to share assets among users.
- OAuth is an open-standard authorization protocol or framework that decribes how unrealted servers and services can safely allow authenticated access to their assets without actually sharing the initial related, single logon credential.
- OAuth is when you log onto a website and it offers one or more opportunites to go on using another website's logon and the other website authenticates you.
- two or more services are being used for one transaction by the end-user.
- almost always represents two unrelated sites or services trying to accomplish something on behalf of users or their software.

## OAuth vs. OpenID
- OID is for humans logging into machines, OA is for machines logging into machines on behalf of humans.

## OAuth vs .SAML
- Security Assertion Markup language. 
- allows one computer to perform both authentication and authorization on behalf of one or more other computers. 
- can provide a single sing-on functionality on its own.
- OAuth uses lighter weight JSON for encoding data and has better support for mobile devices.
- SAML is more often used for enterprise applications.

## OAuth2
- less secure and more complex and less prescriptive than version 1.0. 
- 2.0 creators focused on making OA more interoperable and flexible between sites and devices.
- introduced the concept of token expiration.
- does not support encryption, signature, client verification or channel binding.
- expects implementers to use an outside protection protocol like Transport Layer Security (TLS) to provide those features.

## Authentication 
- determines whether users are who they claim to be.
- challenges the user to validate credentials.
- done before authorization.
- transmits info through an ID token.
- governed by the OpenID Connect protocol (OIDC).

## Authorization
- determines what users can and cannot access.
- verifies wehether access is allowed through policies and rules.
- done after successful authentication.
- transmits info through an Access Token.
- governed by the OAuth 2.0 framework.