## SQL vs NoSQL database
- SQL databases are primarily called as Relational Databases (RDBMS); whereas NoSQL database are primarily called as non-relational or distrubuted database.
- SQL db are table based db whereas NoSQL db are document based, key-value pairs, graph db or wide-column stores. 
- SQL rep data in form of tables which consist of n number of rows of data wherea NoSQL db are the collection of key-value pair, documents, graph db or wide-column stores which do not have standard schema definitions which it needs to adhered to.
- SQL db use (structured query language) for defining and manipulating the data. NoSQL database, queries are focused on collection of documents. Sometimes it is also called as UnQL (unstructured Query Language). 
- SQL db examples: MYSQL, Oracle, Sqplie, Postgres and MS-SQL.
- NoSQL db examples: MongoDB, BigTable, Redis, RavenDb, Cassandra, Hbase, Neo4j, CouchDb.
- For Complex queries: SQL db are a good fit. NoSQL don't have standard interfaces to perform complex queries, and the queries themselves in NoSQL are not as powerful as SQL.
- NoSQL db fis better for the heirarchical data storage as it follows the key-value pair way of storing data similar to JSON data. NoSQL are preferred for large data sets. 
- SQL db are vertically scalable. You can manage increasing load by increasing the CPU, RAM, SSD, etc. 
- NoSQL are horizontally scalable. You can add a few more servers easily in your db infrastructure to handle the large traffic.
- SQL are best suited for high transactional based applications- it's more stable and promises the atomicity as well as integrity of the data.
- SQL db emphasizes on ACID properties (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durabitly). NoSQL the Brewers CAP theorem (Consistency, Availability, and Partition tolerance).
- SQL can either be open-source or closed sourced from commercial vendors. NoSQL db can be classified on the basic of way of storing data as graph db, key-value db, document db, column db and XML db. 

1. What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database? table based database
2. Give a real world example. MySQL
3. What kind of data is a good fit for an NoSQL database? document based, key-value pair, graph databases or wide-column stores.
4. Give a real world example.MongoDB
5. Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage? NoSQL
6. Which type of database is best for scalability? SQLs are better - they can scale vertically.

1. What does SQL stand for? Structured query language
2. What is a relational database? its a type of database that stores and provides access to data point that are related to one another.
3. What type of structure does a relational database work with? Relational model. Each row in the table is a record with a unique ID called the key.
4. What is a "schema'? its a skeleton structure that represents the logical view of the entire database. 
5. What is a NoSQL database? a database that uses different data models, such as document, key-value, wide-colum and graph.
6. How does it work? databases with collections and documents
7. What is inside of a Mongo database?
8. Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? Why?
9. What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database?


## Five differences between SQL and NoSQL
SQL                     
relational              
table based
predefined schema
vertically scalable - increase the horse-power of the hardware
Uses SQL (structured query language) for defining and manipulating data

NoSQL
non-relational
document based, key-value pairs, graph databases or wide-column stores
dynamic schema
horizontallly scalable- increase the db servers
Uses UnQL (unstructured query language) focused on collection of documents.
