# Ethics in Tech

## Google and Ai

- Google is commited to not using AI for weapons or surveillance after employees protested the company's involvement in Project Maven, a Pentagon pilot program that uses AI to analyze drone footage.
- Google will continue to work with the US Military on cybersecurity, search and rescue, and other non-offensive projects.
- Personally, I think most of these tech companies need to take a step and back before opening pandora's box... We really don't now what the end result will when AI is unleashed upon us. It's starting to feel a lot like George Orwells's 1984 more and more each day. The fact that Google denied working on these programs, then get caught with their hand in the cookie jar, is enough for anyone to question the motives behind some on these projects.

## Self Driving Car Ethics

- within a few years, there will be tens of thousands of semi-autonomous vehicles on the roads.
- Self-driving vehicles will ease commutes, returning lost time to workers; enhances mobility for seniors adn those with physical challenges, and sharply reduce the more than 35,000 death on U.S> highways each year.
- I 100% agree with fully-autonomous vehicles. Yes, there will be situations when the program has to make complex decisions, similar to the trolly dilemma, but overall, fully-autonomous vehicles will save more lives in the long run. Something we have to except is that everyday life is random- you could get struck by lightening, slip in the shower or get crushed by a tree while on a hike in the woods. Unfortunately, this is the world we live in.