## Daily Reading Notes 11

##Chapter 16: Images (p406-427)
- specifying the image sizes help pages load more smoothly because HTML and CSS code 
will often load before the Images
- whenever you use consistently sized images across a site, you can use CSS to control 
the dimensions of the images (instead of HTML)
- Determine the sizes of images and give them a class name
- float property moves an image to the left or right of its containing block, allowing 
for text to flow around it (add float property to .img-small-align-left)
## Center Images 
-  Images are inline elements by default- use display: block property to change into 
block element, then use text-align (property) in parent container to center image.
- Margin auto left and right on image will center image

##Background Images
- allows you to place an image behind any HTML element background-image: url{}
- will repeat by default
- background-repeat: repeat, no-repeat, fixed or scroll
- background-position is used to specify where you want the images to be displayed on 
the parent element. center-top, left-top etc. 


## Images Rollovers & Sprites 
- Create a link or button that changes to a second style when user moves their mouse 
over it is know as a rollover. 
- when a single images is used for several different parts of an interface, it is known 
as a sprite.
- The advantage of using sprites is that the web browser only needs to request one image 
rather than many images

## Gradients
- created using the background-image property
- in order to create a linear gradient, we need to specify two colors
- overlay text on a background image, the image just be low contrast in order for the 
text to be legible.
- you can manually adjust the contrast of images with images editing applications such 
as Photoshop or GIMP


Chapter 19: Practical Information (476-492)
- SEO (search engine optimization) is the practice of trying to help your site appear 
nearer to the top of search engine results when people look for topics that your website 
covers. 
- Search engines look for relevant links and what appears on your site. 
- On-page techniques- methods you can use on your web pages to improve their rating in 
search engines- looks at keywords in the text and HTML code.
- Its important that the terms people are searching for a in the text on your pages
- Images should have the appropiate text in the value of their alt attribute (helps 
search engines understand the content of the images).
- Off-page techniques- search engines look at the number of other sites that link to 
yours.
## On-Page SEO
- 7 key places where keywords can appear in order to improve its findability. (page 
title, URL/Web address, Headings, Text, Link text, Image Alt, Page Description )
- Determine which keywords to use on your site by brainstorm, organize, research, 
compare, refine, MAP. 
- Google Analytics allow you to see how many people visit your site, how they find it, 
and what they do when they get there. 
- Obtain a domain name and web hosting to put site on the web. 
- FTP programs allow you to transfer files from your local computer to your web server. 
- 
